=head1 NAME

bbactivate - setup burst buffer on the node

=head1 SYNOPSIS

/opt/ibm/bb/scripts/bbactivate --cn

/opt/ibm/bb/scripts/bbactivate --ln --bscfswork=/gpfs/gpfs0/bscfswork --envdir=HOME --lsfdir=$LSF_SERVERDIR

/opt/ibm/bb/scripts/bbactivate --server --metadata=/gpfs/gpfs0/bbmetadata 


=head1 DESCRIPTION

For a compute node (--cn), it will setup an NVMe over Fabrics target, configuration files, and start bbProxy.  bbProxy will then attempt to connect to either its primary or backup bbServer.

For a server node (--server), it will setup the configuration files and start bbServer

For a launch node (--ln), it will setup the configuration files for bbcmd.

=head2 Files:

bbactivate will by default generate a configuration file in /etc/ibm/bb.cfg.  This configuration file will be consumed by burst buffer 
services when the service is started.

=over 8

=item B<esslist>  (Compute Node)

The esslist file contains a list of IP addresses and ports for each bbServer.  In the planned configuration, this would be the ESS I/O node VM IP address 
plus a well-known port (e.g., 9001).  To express ESS redundancy, place the two ESS's I/O nodes within the same ESS should be 
placed on the same line.  The default location for the esslist file is /etc/ibm/esslist.  The default can be overridden using the --esslist option.

=item B<nodelist>  (Compute Node)

The nodelist file is a list of the xCAT names for all compute nodes - one compute node per line.  The default location for the nodelist file is /etc/ibm/nodelist.  The default can be overridden using the --nodelist option.

=item B<X.509 Security Certificate>  (Compute and I/O nodes)

An X.509 certificate file (e.g., cert.pem) must be placed on all bbServer and compute nodes.  The default location for the certificate file is /etc/ibm/cert.pem.  The default can be overridden using the --sslcert option.  

=item B<X.509 Security Private Key>  (I/O nodes)

An X.509 private key must be placed on all bbServer nodes to authenticate incomming requests from the compute node(s).  The default location for the private key is /etc/ibm/key.pem.  The default can be overridden using the --sslpriv option.  

=back

=head2 Generic options:

=over 8

=item B<--configtempl>

Path to a file containing a customized bb.cfg template.  The default path is /opt/ibm/bb/scripts/bb.cfg

=item B<--outputconfig>

Path to the location file to write the burst buffer configuration file.  The default path is /etc/ibm/bb.cfg

=item B<--[no]csm>

Enable or disable utilizing CSM infrastructure.  CSM agents must be active on the node in order to use CSM.  

On login/launch node, CSM infrastructure will be used to send bbcmd rather than using passwordless ssh.
On bbProxy, volume group and logical volumes will be tracked in CSM databases.  RAS messages will also be sent to CSM.  

=item B<--shutdown>

Shutdown all burst buffer services running on the node.  

=item B<--sslcert>

Path to the X.509 security certificate used to authenticate the connection between bbProxy and bbServer.

=item B<--sslpriv>

Path to the X.509 security private key used to authenticate the connection between bbProxy and bbServer.  

=item B<--skip>

This parameter allow skipping one or more steps of the bbactivate sequence, comma-separated.  Steps:  config,lsf,lvm,nvme,start,health,cleanup

=item B<--dryrun>

bbactivate will output the commands that it would run, but it will not modify the system state.  Configuration files that would have been written are instead sent to stdout unless --drypath is specified.

=item B<--drypath>

When used in combination with --dryrun, the file system changes will be written to file(s) in the directory specified by --drypath instead of the actual file locations.  

=item B<--sharednode>

When true, bbactivate does not reset the NVMe over Fabrics connections.  Default is true.

=item B<--fvt>

Artifically changes the configuration for FVT performance tests.  Not recommended for production usage.

=item B<--scriptpath>

Specifies an alternative path for the default configuration file locations.

=item B<--help>

Displays the bbactivate man page

=back

=head2 Compute Node specific options:

=over 8

=item B<--[no]cn>

Specifies bbactivate should configure burst buffer on the compute node.


=item B<--nodelist>

Path to a file containing a list of compute nodes in the cluster.  This node list will be used 
with the esslist to statically assign the primary and backup bbServer nodes for the compute node that is executing bbactivate.

The format of the nodelist should be a xCAT hostname per line.

The default path is /etc/ibm/nodelist

=item B<--esslist>

Path to a file containing a list of bbServer IP addresses in the cluster.  This ESS list will be used 
with the nodelist to statically assign the primary and backup bbServer nodes for the compute node that is executing bbactivate.

The format of the esslist should be one or two IP address per line.  Multiple addresses on the line are treated as redundant backups to each other.  

The default path is /etc/ibm/esslist


=item B<--nvmetempl>

Path to a file containing a customized NVMe over Fabrics JSON template.  The default path is /opt/ibm/bb/scripts/nvmet.json

=item B<--interfacename>

Changes the interfacename used by bbactivate.  bbactivate uses the interface name to configure the NVMe over Fabrics target interface.  The default is ib0.  

=item B<--[no]offload>

Enable or disable NVMe over Fabrics hardware target offload support.  Target offload is disabled by default.


=item B<--[no]health>

Specifies bbactivate should configure burst buffer health monitor on the compute node.

=back

=head2 Server node options:

=over 8

=item B<--[no]server>

Specifies bbactivate should configure burst buffer on the server node.

=item B<--metadata>

Specifies the metadata directory used by the bbServer instances.  All bbServer nodes in the cluster must point to the same directory.

=back

=head2 Login/Launch node options:

=over 8

=item B<--[no]ln>

Specifies bbactivate should configure burst buffer on the login/launch node.

=item B<--envdir>

Specifies the scratch directory to store user temporary files used for communicating between stage-in, running, and stage-out phases of an LSF job.  
The path should be accessible by both the user and root.  If --envdir=HOME, then the user's home directory (as indicated by getpwnam) will be used.  

=item B<--lsfdir>

When specified, bbactivate will update the LSF's etc/ directory with the esub/epsub and bb pre/post exec scripts.  Normally, this would be --lsfdir=$LSF_SERVERDIR

=item B<--bscfswork>

Specifies the scratch directory for BSCFS temporary files for communicating between the job on the compute node with the BSCFS stage-out scripts regarding pending transfers.  

=back
