=head1 NAME

bb.cfg - provide configuration information for burst buffer daemons bbproxy and bbserver and for bbcmd and API

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bb.cfg is a JSON file configuring bbserver, bbproxy, and the burst buffer library for bbcmd and the burst buffer API

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A "bb.cfg" JSON file provides configuration for bbServer daemons and bbProxy daemons and for the burst buffer library used by bbcmd
and the burst buffer API.  If a value is not set in the file, the burst buffer framework will typically assume a default but may throw
an error message.

=head2 Location of bb.cfg

On a system node, the default location for bb.cfg is /etc/ibm/bb.cfg.  Invocations of bbserver, bbproxy, and bbcmd may override the default
location using parameter "--config <pathname>".  Note that the bb.cfg contents will vary from system to system.

=head2 JSON bb.<value>

=over 8

=item B<bb.nvmecliPath>

Path to the executable "nvme" from the nvme cli package.  

Default:  "/usr/sbin/nvme"

=item B<bb.nvmfConnectPath>

Calls an executable to set up the connection for nvme over fabrics (nvmf).  

Default:  "/opt/ibm/bb/scripts/nvmfConnect.sh"

=item B<bb.unixpath>

Path to the unix socket for interprocess communications (IPC) between bbproxy and the API or bbcmd.

Default: "/run/bb_socket"

=item B<bb.bbserverMetadataPath>

The path within the parallel file system to the metadata shared across the bbServer daemons.
Strongly recommended to be in the IBM Spectrum Scale parallel file system (previously known as GPFS).

Default:  "/gpfs/gpfs0/bbmetadata"

=item B<bb.bbserverFileIOwarnSeconds>

The amount of time in seconds to warn with RAS about a monitored file-system syscall not returning to the caller.
The monitoring is typically done by the daemons.  The value of 0 will result in suppression of the warning.

Default: 300

=item B<bb.bbserverFileIOStuckSeconds>

The amount of time in seconds to deliver RAS that a syscall seems to be stuck.
The monitoring is typically done by the daemons.  The value of 0 will result in suppression of the RAS.

Default: 600

=item B<bb.usekeepalive>

If true, use TCP keep alive.  Also refer to setsockopt option SO_KEEPALIVE for SOL_SOCKET.

Default:  true

=item B<bb.keepaliveidle>
The value in seconds to use for TCP keep alive idle.  Also refer to setsockopt option TCP_KEEPIDLE for SOL_TCP.

Default: 60

=item B<bb.keepalivecount>

The value to set for the TCP keep alive count.  Also refer to setsockopt option TCP_KEEPCNT for SOL_TCP.

Default:  12 

=item B<bb.keepaliveinterval>

The seconds for TCP keep alive interval.  Also refer to setsockopt option TCP_KEEPINTVL for SOL_TCP.

Default: 5

=item B<bb.cmd>  

The bb.cmd handler section is for the configuration of the  bb_cmd comand-line interfaxe.

=item B<bb.<bbserver-name>>

This is a section describing or configuring a bbserver. 

For bbserver, the default value may be overridden by the whoami parameter mentioned 
in the bbserver man page. 

Default:  bb.server0

=item B<bb.<bbproxy-name>>

This is a section describing or configuring a bbproxy.

For bbproxy, the default value may be overridden by the whoami parameter mentioned 
in the bbproxy man page.  

Default:  bb.proxy

=item B<bb.<bscfs-agent-name>>

This is a section describing or configuring a bscfs agent.  

Default:  bscfsagent

=item B<bb.api>  

The bb.api handler section is for the configuration of the burst buffer API.

=back

=head2 JSON values under bb.bbserver-name.

The "dot" values under the JSON level follow.

=over 8  

=item B<ssladdress>

The SSL address and port in format ipv4address:port.

Default:  NO_CONFIG_VALUE and an error will result if not set.

=item B<numRequestThreads>

The number of threads handling requests to the bbserver.

Default:  8

=item B<numTransferThreads>

The number of worker threads handling burst buffer file transfers.

Default: 1

=item B<numTransferBuffers>

The number of transfer buffers for burst buffer file transfers.

Default:  bb.<bbserver-name>.numTransferThreads 

=item B<workerBufferSize>

This is the transfer buffer size for bbserver.

Default:  16777216

=item B<flightlog>

Path of directory to contain flightlog files.  For example, "/var/log/bbserver"


=item B<sslcertif>

The path to the SSL certificate for the SSL session when using ssladdress.
Must be the same certificate on the bbproxy node and bbserver node.

Default:  NO_CONFIG_VALUE and an error will result if not set.

=item B<sslpriv>

The path to the SSL private key for the ceriticate specified in ".sslcertif"
on bbserver node (only) for the SSL session when using ssladdress.

Default:  NO_CONFIG_VALUE and an error will result if not set.

=item B<log>

See heading "Values under .log"

=back

=head2 JSON values under bb.bbproxy-name.

The "dot" values under the JSON level follow.

=over 8

=item B<servercfg>

This may be configured by the burst buffer "bbactivate" script.  This points to a JSON section 
describing a bbserver in a meaningful way for bbproxy obtain a connection to a bbserver.  
The bbproxy daemon uses the bbserver section to set up a secure SSL connection or nonsecure 
connection.

Default:  "bb.server0"

=item B<volumegroup>

The name of the volume group.

Default:  "bb"

=item B<numRequestThreads>

Default:  8

=item B<ssdusagepollrate>

The seconds between polls to check SSD use.

Default:  60

=item B<use_export_layout>

If true, use the device /dev/export_layout for burstbuffer SSD handling.

Default:  false

=item B<lvreadahead>

The SSD logical volume readahead setting.  A value of "-1" sets the readahead to auto.  
The readahead value is set on the lvcreate which creates the logical volume on the SSD.

Default:  -1

=item B<ras_max_rss_size>

For RSS growth, set the threshold for issuing a RAS event.

Default: 2097152

=item B<flightlog>

Path of directory to contain flightlog files.  For example, "/var/log/bbproxy"


=item B<log>
See heading "Values under .log"

=back

=head2 JSON values under bb.bscfsagent.

The "dot" values under the JSON level follow.

=over 8

=item B<workpath>

Default:  "/gpfs/gpfs0/bscfswork"

=item B<flightlog>

Path of directory to contain flightlog files.

=item B<log>

See heading "Values under .log"

=back

=head2 JSON values under bb.cmd

The "dot" values under the JSON level follow.

=over 8

=item B<controller>

Normally set to "csm" for the node controller.

=item B<flightlog>

Path of directory to contain flightlog files.

=item B<log>

See heading "Values under .log"

=back

=head2 JSON values under bb.api.

The "dot" values under the JSON level follow.

=over 8

=item B<flightlog>

Path of directory to contain flightlog files.

=item B<log>

See heading "Values under .log"

=back

=head3 Values under .log

The "dot" values under the JSON level follow.

=over 8

=item B<consoleLog>

Keep a console log of activity according to log severity level.

Default:  true

=item B<default_sev>

Console log severity level.  

Values: "disable" or "off", critical", "error","warning", "info", "debug", "trace",  and "always".

Default:  "info"

=item B<rotationSize>

When rotationSize (bytes) of the console log file occurs, rotate.
The value of "-1" is no rotation.

Default:  -1 

=back

=over

=item B<fileLog>

Path to the console log.  For example:

=over 8

=item "/var/log/bbproxy/console_%Y%m%d.%N.log" 

=item "/var/log/bbserver/console_%Y%m%d.%N.log" 

=back

Default:  "none"

=item B<format>

The format string for the log.

Default:  "%TimeStamp% %SubComponent%::%Severity% | %Message%"

=item B<archiveLogs>

Default:  "none"

=item B<syslog>

Whether to send the log information to syslog.

Default:  false

=item B<server>

If doing syslog, the IPv4 address destination of the syslog.

Default:  "127.0.0.1"

=item B<port>

If doing syslog, the port destination of the syslog transmission.

Default:  514


=back


